That was a fairly long lesson.
Hope you were able to stay with us.
Maybe I will break longer ones
into shorter lessons in future.
So in this lesson,
we look at audio processing and
how we can leverage some of the concepts
we talked about as a use case.
So this figure shows the hearing
thresholds with frequency on
the x-axis and
sound pressure level on y-axis.
The conversational speech covers
about 50 dB dynamic range or
say about from 30 to 80 dB SPL
depending how loud you talk.
The music usually covers about 100
dB plus or minus dynamic range,
going from 10 to 20 dB,
almost up to 110, 120 dB.
So, we need the noise to be 100,000
times lower than the signal,
if we want a very clean representation.
Because even a very light amount of noise,
you're able to hear in the audio room.
So the miracle 13dB demo based
on psychoacoustics shows
that you can actually have
much worse signal-to-noise
ratio than 100 dB if you play
the game right with psycho acoustics.
You won't even hear the noise.
So 13dB means,
between the signal and the noise,
you have only about a factor
of 20 in the voltage domain.
[COUGH] Actually I saw this
demo about 25 years ago and
wanted to recreate it here for
this course.
So the first you will hear,
a stereo original content and Jimmy.
[MUSIC]
And now you can hear
the 13dB of flat noise
goes in white noise added to
each window in the signal,
and you're supposed to hear lots of noise.
Take and listen.
[MUSIC]
Did you hear the noise?
Especially towards the end
in the quiet regions.
So this time, we take exactly the same
amount of white noise in each window,
but we shape it in such a way that
it is right below the signal peaks,
and 13dB below where the signal is.
So the overall signal to noise
ratio is exactly the same in
what you just heard and
what you're going to hear now.
[MUSIC]
Even if you put on headphones and
listen to this very carefully,
you should hear much less or
no noise at all.
Now, here's the interesting thing.
If we take these two signals A and
C where we did not hear the difference and
look at the difference,
you will see all that crud that we
introduced in the signal with 13dB SNR.
And you didn't hear in the other case but
when you hear to it on its own,
you can actually hear all the mess
that we did with the signal.
Let's listen to the 5D, Jimmy.
[MUSIC]
So there are two main ideas in taking
advantage of this in the psychoacoustics.
The figure on the left shows what
we call simultaneous masking.
We talked about critical bands and
the work in AT&T in 1930s,
that is the Fletcher's work.
So, within a critical band,
if you have a very strong component,
that is called the masker.
It will mask all the neighboring
components in that critical band.
And these are called the masked sums.
And, also, if there is a loud explosion,
like a boom or a symbol.
It's as if the ears goes deaf for
a few milliseconds.
This is shown on the right hand picture.
This is called post masking.
When you have a loud sound,
you don't hear anything for
about 30 to 80 milliseconds and
then you start hearing the other sounds.
So you can put any garbage in that
region or not code the signals
use very few bits and
still you will have very faithful quality.
There is also this concept of pre-masking
that has been found in psychoacoustics,
but from signal processing
perspective audio coding,
I haven't seen much data rated actions,
as far as I know.
So for audio coding networks,
this is how we take advantage
of the psychoacoustic model.
This is not an exact block diagram.
You will find many different
block diagrams in the literature.
Actually I have an article by Painter and
Spanius in the further reading section.
You should take a look at that.
But essentially, using our own diagram,
the yellow block on
the top we do a parallel,
very height resolution time
frequency decomposition and
we use that to implement
a psychoacoustic model, and
the output of the psychoacoustic
model are the masking curse.
That's what really drives
the quantization process and
that's really where we get most of
the data rate reductions in MP3 and ASE.
And then we use Huffman coding after
that to reduce the data rates further.